We have established what data science is and who data scientists are,
but how should we approach data science?
There are three general approaches to data science problems,
these include descriptive, predictive, and prescriptive approaches.
As the name suggests,
descriptive data science problems require statistical analysis to identify,
summarize, and describe a phenomenon of interest.
Common descriptive problems include customer segmentation,
and business process dash-boarding.
Predictive approaches attempt to predict
a categorical or numerical outcome given a collection of inputs.
For example, it's common for B2C businesses to use predictive models to
identify people likely to churn or discontinue using a business' products or service.
Prescriptive approaches build on descriptive and predictive models
with a bias towards identifying optimal actions over simply monitoring.
For example, some forms of automated marketing message testing will
incorporate micro experiments comparing
slight differences in text using marketing messages,
and will automatically optimize messages to be sent to individual customers.
The goal of segmentation is to identify
groups of customers based on similar characteristics.
We use the data we have on customers to
describe those groups based on their buying behavior.
These descriptions can be very valuable,
as they allow a business to target their marketing outreach
based on characteristics particular to individual segments.
The idea for predicting customer churn is to predict customers that are
likely to leave the company or discontinue using the company's products or services.
Predictive models can identify triggers that
ultimately identify customers likely to churn.
Armed with that knowledge,
marketers can employ preventative actions,
such as targeting outreach that increases
the likelihood that a customer will be retained by the business.
In other words, that the customer will not churn.
In the case of marketing message optimization,
the idea is that we have several different ways to
craft the content of marketing outreach messages,
and we would like a way to identify which of those formulations is optimal.
Typically, this is done through AB testing of alternative messages.
A prescriptive analytics approach automates this AB testing by sending out
slightly differing alternatives to different customer micro-segments.
The results of these messages,
whether they lead to customer acquisition, for example,
are monitored, and a prescriptive solution will
automatically optimize toward the best-performing content.